Great work. You've successfully extracted data from a variety of sources,
that's the first part of an ETL pipeline.
Now, you'll practice transforming data.
What does transform really mean?
In the context of data science,
transformation usually involves getting data ready for a machine learning algorithm.
For instance, you'll often work with data coming from more than one source.
You might need to pull some data from a CSV file,
other data from a SQL database,
and then combine those two datasets together,
or perhaps you want to clean the data,
or engineer new features.
Hence, you're transforming the original datasets to create a new dataset.
In this part of the lesson,
you'll practice many data transformation techniques
such as combining data from different sources,
cleaning data, and working with different data encodings.
You'll also see how to search for and remove duplicate data rows,
create dummy variables, remove outliers,
normalize data, and engineer new features.
You might be thinking that there are a lot of topics to cover and you're right.
A survey by one of our industry partners,
Figure Eight found that data scientists spend
80 percent of their time gathering and transforming data.
We have a lot to get through,
so let's get right to it.